# animal3D-SDK-202101SP
animal3D SDK and related course frameworks for spring 2021.

Project 5 demonstrates multiple shader algorithms and techniques we have learned through the semester in our Graphics II course through a simple beach/ocean scene in Unity 2021.1.4f1. In the scene, you will see two different environments in boxes: our custom shader results on the left, and a **Shader Graph** result on the right. We used Shader Graph as an inspiration to our final product and to be able to track our progress when coding our custom shaders. Both the water and sand shaders are responsive to light (however do not receive shadows), use Linear Interpolation in some meaningful way, and use the same base texture. The sand shader uses Parallax Occlusion Mapping to modify the fragment colours to create the illusion of a more detailled texture, making the sand look bumpy. The approach we took to POM was not our original one, as Unity was complaining about our for-loop taking too long to terminate, and we could not fix it. For that reason, we opted to get help online and implemented another person's algorith and changing it as much as possible to reflect our original approach and ideas (citing our source, of course). The water shader does not interpolate between deep and shallow water colours properly, and does not show a proiper wave effect, because of a common factor: the interpolation parameter not being calculated properly. We wholeheartedly believe that if that value was correct, then we would see the water get darker as the sand beneath it gets deeper, and the wave effect showing on the surface of the water. We also implemented Phong shading on the water (once again citing our source for the algorithm), however we could not get the specular highlights to show (we made them pink to me more obvious, but they are not present in the material).


**Controls and usage:** After running the Unity project, you can more aroundin the Scene View and look at the Shader Graph example and compare it to our Custom Shaders (labelled in the scene using UI Text). In the inspector, try changing the rotation of the light source, and see how the water colour changes. Next, try de-activating the walls and water for the Custom Shaders, and perform the same light rotation tests to see how the sand reacts. Additionally, in the material for the custom sand shader, try modifying the sliders for *Hight scale* and *Parallax Samples* to see the change in detail in the sand through the POM algorithm.
